chore(releasing): cherry picking 0.44.0 commits (#22207)
vectordotdev/vector: website/content/en/highlights/2025-01-13-0-44-0-upgrade-guide.md

---

## Table of Contents

Breaking Changes:

1. [Clickhouse Sink `skip_unknown_fields` changes](#clickhouse-sink)
2. [File source `ignored_header_bytes` and `lines` fix](#file-source)
3. [Some VRL functions are now fallible](#vrl-breaking-changes)

## Clickhouse Sink `skip_unknown_fields` changes {#clickhouse-sink}

The [skip_unknown_fields](https://vector.dev/docs/reference/configuration/sinks/clickhouse/#skip_unknown_fields) behavior was changed:

- `skip_unknown_fields` is `true`: enables skipping unknown fields (overrides the server's default)
- `skip_unknown_fields` is `false`: enables "strict" mode and does not allow skipping unknown fields for the request, (overrides the
   server's
   default)
- `skip_unknown_fields` is not set: follows the server's default

Double-check your configuration and update the setting per above.

## File source `ignored_header_bytes` and `lines` fix {##file-source}

When sourcing from compressed files, `ignored_header_bytes` no longer looks at the compressed file's bytes (which would include the
magic bytes for the compression header). Instead, it ignores the bytes from the uncompressed content. Similarly, `lines` no longer

> looks for new line delimiters in the compressed content, but the uncompressed content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
looks for new line delimiters in the compressed content, and instead looks for them in the uncompressed content.
```

## Some VRL functions are now fallible {#vrl-breaking-changes}

`to_unix_timestamp`, `to_float`, and `uuid_v7` can now return an error if the supplied timestamp is unrepresentable as a nanosecond

> timestamp. Previously the function calls would panic. VRL scripts using the above functions need to be updated to handle potential

Reviewer: ```suggestion
timestamp. Previously, the function calls would panic. VRL scripts using the above functions need to be updated to handle potential
```
